# Double Roman Domination Problem
In the last few decades, graph domination problems have attracted the attention of both academics and practitioners. In these problems, a subset of vertices is selected such that every vertex in the graph is either in the subset or adjacent to at least one selected vertex. One of the most extended variants is the Roman Domination Problem (RDP), where vertices are assigned values to ensure coverage under specific protection rules. This research addresses the Double Roman Domination Problem (DROMDP), a more restrictive extension of RDP in which stronger domination conditions are imposed to guarantee coverage even under potential vertex failures. In this paper, an algorithm based on the Iterated Local Search (ILS) framework is proposed, considering the use of two constructive procedures, two local search methods, and two perturbation mechanisms to find high-quality solutions. The results obtained are compared with the state-of-the-art method, based on Ant Colony Optimization, with ILS emerging as the most competitive algorithm for DROMDP. These results are supported by an extensive computational experimentation, including an ablation study of the different components, statistical tests, and a Bayesian analysis on the probability of ILS for being the best algorithm for any instance.
# Datasets
The testbed of instances is divided into two different subsets, both composed of instances from the Harwell–Boeing library. On the one hand, there are 117 instances directly derived from the state of the art for the DROMDP. On the other hand, we propose a new set of 25 more challenging instances, with size from 3466 to 15439 nodes to analyze the limits of the compared algorithms.
# Code
The source code is available at the package "Code", and the executable is provided as DROMDP.jar. Additionally, an Excel file with the tables of the experiments results can be find in the experiments folder.
